Basic Level:
What is Terraform, and why is it used?
What are the key features of Terraform?
Explain the difference between declarative and imperative approaches. Which one does Terraform follow?
What is the role of a Terraform provider? Can you name some commonly used providers?
What are Terraform modules, and why are they important?
How do you initialize a Terraform configuration?
What are the core Terraform commands? Describe their purpose.
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
terraform destroy
What is the use of the Terraform state file?
Explain the difference between terraform refresh and terraform plan.
What is the purpose of a terraform.tfvars file?


Intermediate Level:
How does Terraform manage dependencies between resources?
What is the difference between count and for_each in Terraform?
What are data sources in Terraform, and when would you use them?
How can you import an existing infrastructure into Terraform?
What is a backend in Terraform? Name some backend types.
Explain the difference between local and remote backends in Terraform.
How do you handle sensitive data such as passwords or secrets in Terraform?
What are workspaces in Terraform? How do they differ from environments?
Can you explain the lifecycle rules in Terraform? How are they used?
What are Terraform outputs, and how are they helpful?


Advanced Level:
How do you ensure infrastructure created using Terraform is reusable?
What is the difference between terraform validate and terraform fmt?
How do you manage multiple environments (e.g., development, staging, production) in Terraform?
What are the best practices for structuring Terraform projects?
How would you resolve a situation where Terraform state becomes corrupted or inconsistent?
What is the purpose of terraform taint and terraform untaint?
How do you lock a Terraform state file? Why is this necessary?
Explain how to use conditional expressions in Terraform.
How would you perform rolling updates with Terraform?
What is the significance of resource graph in Terraform, and how does Terraform generate it?


Scenario-Based Questions:
You want to deploy an application across multiple regions. How would you achieve this using Terraform?
If you encounter a dependency cycle error in your configuration, how would you troubleshoot it?
How would you manage Terraform in a team where multiple developers are working on the same infrastructure?
How would you migrate Terraform state from a local backend to a remote backend like S3?
How do you debug a Terraform script that is failing during the apply step?

If you delete s3 bucket in console what will happen in terraform 



